Camoto: Classic-game Modding Tools
Copyright 2010 Adam Nielsen <malvineous@shikadi.net>
http://www.shikadi.net/camoto/

Camoto is a collection of utilities for editing (modding) "classic games",
those from the early to mid 1990s.

This is libgamegraphics, one component of the Camoto suite.  libgamegraphics
provides a standard method of accessing pixel and palette data in the many
different (often custom) image formats used by many games.  It allows
full-screen images, sprites and animations to be extracted and/or modified.

Pixel data is provided as an array of bytes, with one byte per pixel.  This
allows it to work with images of up to 256 colours.  Images of less colours
(such as EGA 16-colour) will still be expanded to one byte per pixel, only the
values used will be limited (e.g. 0-15.)  This means any application using
the library will only need to handle a single image format - 8bpp with a
palette.

The palette will be made available if it exists, however as many image formats
store the palette externally it is left up to the application to locate and
use any external palette data.

This library is still in the preliminary stages, so only the following formats
have been implemented:

  * Crystal Caves (tiles)
  * Zone 66

Many more formats are planned.

The example program (gamegfx) requires png++ for generation of .png files.
This is supplied in the source release but not in the git version.  If you are
compiling from git, download png++ from http://www.nongnu.org/pngpp/ and
extract it into a folder called png++ in the examples/ directory.  The latest
release at the time of writing (v0.2.3) only works with an older version of
libpng, so you may need the SVN version instead if ./configure fails.

The library is then compiled and installed in the usual way:

  ./configure && make
  sudo make install
  sudo ldconfig

If you downloaded the git release, run ./autogen.sh before the commands above.

All supported image formats are fully documented on the ModdingWiki - see
http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki/Category:Graphics_Files

This library is released under the GPLv3 license.
